---
layout: post
title:  "Hydrogen 1.2.2 released"
date:   2023-09-09 16:00:00 UTC

categories: jekyll update
---

I'm very happy to announce the 1.2.2 release of Hydrogen!

Starting with this release we will also provide AppImages for our Linux user base! If you haven't heard about this technology yet: it's a portable bundle containing the compiled Hydrogen binary as well as its dependencies and resource files. It runs on most Linux OSs (at least recent ones) and is very easy to handle. Just download it, make it executable, and run it.

Apart from that there were a couple of bug fixes and minor changes:

## Added
- Hydrogen is now released as AppImage for Linux as well.
- Playlist dialog can now be resized and remembers geometry,
  position, as well as visibility.
- Save and restore Director position, geometry, and visibility.
- New and properly licensed AppStream metainfo files
  `org.hydrogenmusic.Hydrogen.metainfo.xml` replace old
  `org.hydrogenmusic.Hydrogen.appdata.xml`.
- Hydrogen shows an error dialog and exits on the first invocation
  with no hydrogen.conf file present on user and system level
  (application was not properly installed).
- A new `cmake` option `WANT_DYNAMIC_JACK_CHECK` was
  introduced. When set Hydrogen does check on startup whether
  `jackd`, `jackdbus`, or `pw-jack` is installed and disables JACK
  support in case none of them was found. This is intended for
  bundled builds, like AppImage and Flatpak, and can be overridden
  by setting the audio driver manually to "Jack" in the
  hydrogen.conf or by passing the "-d jack" CLI option.

## Changed
- Spanish translation updated.
- Minor tweaks in French and German translation.
- On Linux the order of audio drivers tried when selecting `Auto`
  changed from "JACK > ALSA > OSS > PulseAudio" to
  "JACK > PulseAudio > ALSA > OSS".

## Fixed
- Style combo box in Preferences > Appearance > Interface is
  working again.
- Fix segfault on hitting "Panic" button while transport was
  rolling.
- Instrument/strip-specific actions, like MIDI action
  `STRIP_MUTE_TOGGLE`, did void the instrument selection of the
  Instrument Editor if the specified instrument was not the
  currently selected one.
- Do not start playback at cursor when cursor in Song Editor is
  beyond the current song length.
- Fixed compatibility with PortMidi version 217 (Hydrogen v1.2.1
  was incompatible) (#1795). All versions of Hydrogen >=1.3 will,
  however, require on a more recent PortMidi version (at least
  v2.0.1).
- Fixed allowed range of MIDI output notes to be [0,127] again
  (#1828) (introduced in v1.2.0).
- Hydrogen does now successfully startup even if no data folder is
  present on user and system level.
- Allow an arbitrary number of notes in a pattern (#1827).
- Fix playback track volume fader (#1449)

Source code and binary releases can be found as usual on [GitHub](https://github.com/hydrogen-music/hydrogen/releases/tag/1.2.2)
