---
layout: post
title:  "Hydrogen 1.2.1 released"
date:   2023-06-08 21:27:00 BST

categories: jekyll update
---

Release 1.2.1 of Hydrogen is the new stable release of Hydrogen. It fixes a number of bugs and inconsistencies found in version 1.2.0 and is generally recommended for all users.

## Changes
- Update French translation

## Fixes
- Fix reopening of last used Playlist. In addition, in case the
  PlaylistDialog was opened at the end of the last session - when
  "Reopen last used playlist" is checked in the Preferences - the
  dialog will be reopened too at the same position.
- Fix spurious marking of opened songs as modified.
- Fix MIDI (output) feedback for metronome toggling and pan
  setting.
- Fix superfluous MIDI event - Action bindings. An incoming MIDI
  event can be mapped to an Action only once.
- Fix tool tips of MIDI-learnable widgets. All bounded MIDI events
  will be shown.
- Fix MIDI note output for channel 16 (previously only channel
  1-15 were accessible in the InstrumentEditor).
- Fix spurious tempo changes to 120bpm when switching songs or
  between pattern and song mode (#1779 and #1785)
- Support "START", "CONTINUE", and "STOP" type System Realtime
  MIDI messages in PortMidi and CoreMidi.
- Fix MIDI action binding to incoming MMC_DEFERRED_PLAY event.
- Fix missing MIDI driver restart when adjusting corresponding
  parameters in Preferences.
- Fix MIDI Machine Control (MMC) event type handling on Windows
  (#1773)
- Fix loading of legacy drumkits. All layers but the first one
  were dropped during drumkit upgrade (#1759)
- Fix MIDI input handling with "Discard MIDI messages after action
  has been triggered" checked. Incoming NOTEON message were
  dropped without triggering a sound (#1751)
- Fix beat and bar calculation in pattern mode (#1741)
- Fix compilation in GCC with -Werror=format-security (#1739)
- Explicit usage of Python3 in stats.py script
- Fix build against Musl (nekopsykose)
- Omit git commit hash in displayed version of release builds

Source code and binary releases for Windows and macOS are available from [GitHub](https://github.com/hydrogen-music/hydrogen/releases/tag/1.2.1).
