---
layout: post
title:  "Hydrogen 1.2.3 released"
date:   2024-01-12 12:00:00 UTC

categories: jekyll update
---

We are happy to announce patch release version 1.2.3 of Hydrogen!

It fixes a number of bugs and inconsistencies found since version 1.2.2 and is generally recommended for all users.

## Added
- Forward compatibility for .h2song and drumkit changes introduced in version 1.3.0

## Fixed
- Restore mute button state of master mixer strip on song load.
- Recorded MIDI notes were inserted ahead of the beat (#1851).
- Drumkit Property Dialog:
  * Images were written regardless whether one hits the ok or cancel button.
  * When using Save As to create a new drumkit, the added image was put in the
    old drumkit folder instead and not properly copied into the new one.
  * Allow to Save As drumkits derived from kits not found on the current system.
- Audio Engine: In Song Mode with Loop Mode deactivated Hydrogen missed notes
  very close to the end of the song.
- Fix crash on playing back notes with custom length (#1852).
- macOS: fix naming of CoreMIDI header (#1865).
- Fix various rendering issues with custom length notes.
- Fix potential crash/failing startup on Windows in case PortAudio or PortMidi
  device is already occupied (#1893)
- Fix crash on shutdown, song export, or driver changes in the Preferences while
  using JACK on Linux (#1902, #1867, #1907)
- Pattern Editor:
  * Only delete stop notes clicked by the user. (#1859)
  * Proper undo of moving notes out of DrumPatternEditor. (#1859)
  * Custom note lengths are now only drawn till the next stop
    note. (#1859)
  * Highlight selected stop notes too. (#1859)
  * Update selected notes visually on left and right keyboard movement. (#1859)
  * Fixed stop note color which was no different than the default note color
    (#1854).
  * Fixed grid line rendering on rational pattern size nominator.
  * Fixed grid line colors on very fine resolution.
- Fix broken file browser dialogs on Linux when using translations (#1908).
- Fix drumkit export on Windows (#1927).
- Timing drift (and artifacts) in playback track rendering on some hosts is
  fixed (#1920).

Source code and binary releases can be found as usual on [GitHub](https://github.com/hydrogen-music/hydrogen/releases/tag/1.2.2)
